---
layout: post
title: What Is Sin?
description: I came face to face with the true meaning of sin.
imageUrl: https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/109794641/185727919-c70206e0-e127-4bde-9143-3ed064bc0756.jpg
---

I have always wondered - what is sin, what is good and what is bad, etc.
These questions have remained a mystery for me ever since childhood.
Elders and well wishers around us always tell that lust, greed, attachment, etc. are not good and they are sins.
For ex. Sikhism references [Five Thieves](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Five_Thieves) which include - Ahankar (unrefined ego),
Kam (lust), Krodh (krodh), Lobh (greed) and Moh (attachment).
At first glance; aren't these good? - for ex. with (ahankar) raw, unrefined ego; I can rule over others, throw orders, do as I please, etc.
with kam (lust), I can enjoy the bodily pleasures, with lobh (greed) - I can accumulate more and more luxury and ensure an increasingly
comfortable existence by accumulating more and more and moh (attachment) - the more I attach myself to the possessions; won't I be
ensuring its preservation and continuous benefit from it?  So why are these called thieves then?

Pondering over this from many angles, I came to the conclusion that:
> Any activity; which causes, either now or in the future, a depletion, accumulation, 
> unregulation, concentration or stuck-up of energy
> is a sin.

## Why Energy?
Imagine a city in which there's only one kind of energy - for ex. electrical energy and no other energy - for ex. food, water (biochemical energies),
heat energy, etc. aren't there.  There's just electrical energy - undiversified, concentrated electrical energy.
Would you like to live in such a city?

Imagine you go to a city where there is no energy - no electricity (electrical energy), no food (biochemical energy), no wind (wind energy), nothing.
Would you like to stay in such a city?

Now, imagine another city in which there's a lot of energy but it is very spasmic - it suddenly flows and due to these gushes; it destroys things
in the city.
Would you like to stay in such a city?

Now, imagine another city where there is energy - quite a bit of it - and more and more of it is being accumulated but it isn't flowing out for anything
useful for the inhbitants of the city.
Would you like to stay in such a city?

Now, imagine another city where there is sufficient energy but it is stuck and unable to flow around.
Would you like to stay in such a city?

## Sin/Five Thieves
- ahankar (unrefined ego) results in concentrated energy - ex. bossing around, having things only your way, etc. - results in isolation
- kam (lust) result in depletion of energy - ex. sex for sensual gratification - causes loss of energy - lethargy
- krodh (anger) results in gushes of energy - destroying things in its path - causes spasms in the body
- lobh (greed) results in accumulation of energy - causes tension
- moh (attachment) results in stuck-up energy - causes worry

### Why are these sins/thieves?

> ...because the city is your body and you will have to live in such a body where the energy is not flowing.

## Merit
> Any activity which results in improved flow of energy is the opposite of sin.

Examples of such activities - feeding stray dogs, helping the poor, caring for living creatures around you - human, non-human, plants, etc.,
something creative or productive, doing something meaningful for others, a charity, not-for-profit organizations, feeding the less privilaged around you - for ex. the security guard of your building, the maids and workers, etc.

_That's all folks..._

